docs: add hello world robot documentation (#62)
RoboCupJuniorTC/rcj-soccer-sim: docs/docs/how_to.md

# How to program your robot

## Controllers

Each object in the simulation world is able to be controlled by a program.
This program is called **Controller**. Each of the robots should have exactly
one controller **Python3** program. There is an invisible referee object in the simulation,
which takes care of controlling the game and checking the rules.

The controllers are located in `controllers` directory. The name of the controller

> must be located in a subfolder with the same name and this name ought to be specified

Author: Included.

in `soccer.wbt` file.

## Hello world, robot!

We have prepared an example robot controllers, which can be found in `controllers`
directory prefixed with `rcj_soccer_player`. Each robot is programmed the same way,
meaning it rotates to face the ball and goes towards it afterwards.

We decided to make the code reusable and put some common methods into
`RCJSoccerRobot` class inside `rcj_soccer_robot.py` file.

> Let's put together a simple program on how to program the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's put together a simple program to showcase how you can go about programming a robot.
```

> ```python

Reviewer: @Adman this is quite a big jump, I though we'd go line by line or something like that. Is that missing by any chance?

Author: Yeah, line by line is explained below.

        self.right_motor.setPosition(float('+inf'))

        self.left_motor.setVelocity(0.0)
        self.right_motor.setVelocity(0.0)
    
    def get_new_data(self):
        packet = self.receiver.getData()
        self.receiver.nextPacket()

        struct_fmt = 'ddd' * 6 + 'dd'

        unpacked = struct.unpack(struct_fmt, packet)

        data = {}
        for i, r in enumerate(ROBOT_NAMES):
            data[r] = {
                "x": unpacked[3 * i],
                "y": unpacked[3 * i + 1],
                "orientation": unpacked[3 * i + 2]
            }
        data["ball"] = {
            "x": unpacked[3 * N_ROBOTS],
            "y": unpacked[3 * N_ROBOTS + 1]
        }
        return data

    def run(self):
        while self.robot.step(TIME_STEP) != -1:
            if self.receiver.getQueueLength() > 0:
                data = self.get_new_data()

                # Get the position of our robot
                robot_pos = data[self.name]
                # Get the position of the ball
                ball_pos = data['ball']

                self.left_motor.setVelocity(1)
                self.right_motor.setVelocity(-1)

my_robot = MyRobot()
my_robot.run()
```

> Let's explain the code in detail:

Reviewer: @Adman I believe it may be better to start with this and then put the whole code block towards the end.

```python
from controller import Robot
```

The Robot class is required to be imported because this is the only way we are able

> to controll the robot. The Robot class is shipped together with webots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to controll the robot. The Robot class is shipped together with Webots.
```

> ```python

Reviewer: @Adman do we actually need to import it in here? Wouldn't it be sufficient to import it where the unpacking actually happens?

Author: It would, but I think that's not a good practice to import stuff in functions (unless you have cyclic import problem)

import struct
```

> This library is a built-in python library, which is required to unpack the data sent by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This library is a [built-in Python library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/struct.html), which is required to unpack the data sent by
```

the supervisor.

```python
TIME_STEP = 64
ROBOT_NAMES = ["B1", "B2", "B3", "Y1", "Y2", "Y3"]
N_ROBOTS = len(ROBOT_NAMES)
```

> We define some constants here, whose values we will be used later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also define some useful constants, whose values will be used later.
```

```python
class MyRobot:
```

You can wrap the program into the class as we did. The benefit of OOP

> (object oriented programmin) is that you can later inherit from common class used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
([Object Oriented Programming](https://realpython.com/python3-object-oriented-programming/)) is that you can later reuse the same common class
```

Reviewer: @Adman I don't really like the cheap advertisement but it seems like a pretty nice link in this case

throughout your controllers and therefore make the code easier to read. We are
going to continue with our OOP approach.

```python
def __init__(self):
    self.robot = Robot()
    self.name = self.robot.getName()
    ...
```

> The `__init__` something like constructor of the class and is called when the object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `__init__` function is something like a constructor of the class and is called when an instance of the `MyRobot` object
```

> is created. We initialize some important variables there. The most important one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is created. We use this function to initialize some important variables. The most important one
```

> is the `Robot` instance, which allows us to get access to the so called devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is the `Robot` instance, which allows us to get access to the so called Webots devices
```

> like motor (for controlling the speed) or receiver (for reading data from supervisor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like motor (for controlling the speed) or receiver (for reading data from Supervisor).
```

**The name and the team of your robot** can be determined by calling `self.robot.getName()`.
It will give you one of `{"B1", "B2", "B3", "Y1", "Y2", "Y3"}`. The first letter determines
the team ("Blue", "Yellow"), while the second one is the robot's identifier.

```python
def get_new_data(self):
    ...
``` 

We are not going to explain this deeply. This function is to parse the incoming
data from supervisor. Feel free to copy and use it. The resulting dictionary
contains positions of all of the robots as well as the position of the ball.

```python
def run(self):
```

This is the method which contains the logic for controlling the robot.

```python
while self.robot.step(TIME_STEP) != -1:
```

**The `step` function is crucial and must be used in every controller.
This function synchronizes the sensor and actuator data between Webots and the controllers.**

```python
if self.receiver.getQueueLength() > 0:
```

> Before reading data, its important to check if there is actually something

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before reading data, it is important to check if there is actually something
```

> in the queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the queue that we can read.
```

```python
data = self.get_new_data()

robot_pos = data[self.name]
ball_pos = data['ball']

self.left_motor.setVelocity(1)
self.right_motor.setVelocity(-1)
```

> And finally, read the new data received from supervisor, do some calculations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And finally, after reading the new data received from supervisor, we do some calculations
```

and set the speed of the motors.

```python
my_robot = MyRobot()
my_robot.run()
```

In the very end of our program, we initialize the robot and call the method `run`

> in order to run the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in order to execute the code.
```

## Importing shared code

> Each team consists out of three robots. These robots might share some of the code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each team consists of three robots. These robots might share some of the code
```

> and its actually a good practice not to duplicate code all over the place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and it is  actually [a good practice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) not to duplicate code all over the place.
```

Imagine you have the folder structure which looks like this

```
controllers/
├── robot1/
│   └── robot1.py
|   └── utils.py
├── robot2/
│   └── robot2.py
├── robot3/
│   └── robot3.py
```

> and within `robot2.py` you want to import some useful code from the `utils.py`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and within `robot2.py` you want to import some useful code from `utils.py`
```

> located in `robot1` folder. This is possible, but you need to put the code below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
located in the `robot1` folder. This is possible, but you need to put the follow code snippet right at the
```

Author: ```suggestion
located in the `robot1` folder. This is possible, but you need to put the following code snippet right at the 
```

> on top of your `robot2.py` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
top of your `robot2.py` file.
```

```python
import sys
from pathlib import Path
sys.path.append(str(Path('.').absolute().parent))
from robot1 import utils
``` 

> This will ensure that the code from `robot1` is importable (adds the parent folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will ensure that the code from `robot1` is importable (it adds the parent folder
```

> to the PATH)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the Python PATH -- the list of folders where Python looks when importing modules).
```

> If you want to import `utils` within the `robot1`, you do no have to add these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to import `utils` within `robot1`, you do no have to add these
```

magic lines to `robot1.py`, but instead just call

```python
import utils

> ```

Reviewer: @Adman it would be great to add a bit of a background so as to why is that the case

Author: Added.
